Memory Makeover

Diana M. Salles and Anne Ogborn
music remix    Joshua Chase


What motivates us is bringing game technologies to non-traditional audiences and expanding the fun of games to experiences beyond the traditional pushing buttons. We want to create spaces where people can act, play, and be human together. 

As game development professionals in the 90's, it puzzled us both that more people do not enjoy games, that making and playing games were dominated by certain groups, who seemed to think of games as being "naturally" suited for young technologically-inclined males. A lot more people play games now, but still many people are shut out. Computer games offer possibilities of imagining logical, interactive systems, that can deeply affect emotions, behavior, and thinking. We want to expand what games are for and who they serve, because games are too powerful a form of expression to be relegated to a niche role. 

Tangibility and physicality are important to both of us. Anne Ogborn's first experience with computers was the highly tangible interface of Hollerith punch cards. Computers smelled of ozone, hot paper and machine oil. Programs were a unique physical 'deck'.

When the possibility of creating a game for the Transgender Day of Visibility came up we immediately knew we had found an ideal theme for a Kinect based installation. Being trans is all about the body. In the war between the sexes, the trans body is Belgium.

Memory Makeover naturally invites the question "Is it valid to construct a memory of a birthday party without the original party?". More subtly, we invite you to ask the question, "Why wasn't there a party?"

Our collaboration is unusual, engaging us as individuals to explore our differences and our similarities. In particular, one of us is trans, one cis. Such artistic partnerships are particularly rare when the cis artist isn't the partner of a trans person or otherwise 'in' the community and the theme of the work is transgender experience.

But additionally, our collaboration explores many divides - of left/right brained orientation, of different life stories, and difference in training. Yet we are bound more by our similarities than our differences. We've both lived through chaos and managed to make satisfying lives despite it. We're moved by similar desires to explore new human-computer interactions. And we're both five foot seven.



8cD

fantastic

I don't know why I am struggling right now but yours says it all imho
I like how you pose a question

No, you're saying somthing important - that games seem to have a 'natural bias' in them - as model railroads have to ahve trains. Breaking those assumptions is an important part of what artists do - think of how comics have broken out of the superheros for children mold.

I mean there are way more kinds of games now but the bias is still there 

yes. Notice how many of the trans games in the little list are NOT conventional 'get to the goal' games

and yesTrue, the bia! s is still there

right, it's good for games to hear more kionds of experiences games are modeled after real life experiences
but anyway that's an argument for game developers to hear 

your point about so many buttons - what's missing is the statement that mastering rapidly pushing a sequence of buttons is a task that fewer women than men 
find rewarding  - not to mention the narratology of push the right buttons to kill the opponent in male centered context.


yeah women say Why? yet plenty of people found ways of making women waste massive amounts of time & energy doing something they find meaningful haha like daytime TV 

Yes - I've been playing with an alternative design. I played Pandemic's "The Saboteur" - it's aboutb the french resistance. But it's a typical sneak, run, shoot, one man army game.  I've been doing an alternative design that isn't, certainly, crunchy granola feminist, but is informed by my experience as a woman.

The goal is to build up your resistance group - you gain power through collaboration.  The love story is more central - people's emotions are important - it's not about getting the super blaster machine gun.

yeah the one in your talk  - yes, that one.

Daytime TV provides dramatic energy through interpersonal conflict. Bob loves Sarah, but Sarah loves Henry, And Henry loves Bob. 

ok, how do we proceed from here?
I think we're each saying valid things, and not repeating. Maybe it works to have us each do a statement. Though a unified one is pwoerful. Esp. since trans people so rarely seee collaboration with cis people who aren't sexual partners (you are, AFAIK, the first cis/non partner serious artist to look at trans people).

hm again you are enlightening me
I also think a single one is better and reflects our method anyway
 
 True
 
 suggestion - why doesn't one of us generate a unified version of what we have here. Then we can edit that. Since I can't draw, I'm shut out of most of the art side, maybe it should be me.
 hey you did the first test bones! But hey if you do it it's less work for me ;p also remember Miki asked you for a poster?

OK I will pull the latest, and get a screenshot with the new background we can use for an image

 ol
 
 ok - I'm getting a tad bored programming. I'd like to do something else. 
 Yes, - I'll do poster.
 
 Should we do something about decorating the space? I have a large format printer available.
 

 
 ah the space
 OK first off I have streamers from a party and duck tape it's all very colorful to mark off the space
 
 Oh, htat's great - and I'll be near a party store, I'll pick up some stuff
 
 There's a party store next to RV repair place
 
 lets hold off poster a few days. We'll have your complete artwork then
 
 lI wonets hder if old off ppartoster a cy hats ouple daywould s - then workwe'll have
 oops
 I wonder if party hats would work
 lol
 hats are a great idea. I could color print some asset on cardstock to glue on them, so people have a souvenir.
 
 ok, I'll crank out a unified version. About an hour.
 
 
 
 